In this lecture we'll practice what we have learned in the previous one which means defining our group
of roots which share some common parameters like they have a common prefix in the URL common prefix
in their root name and we'll learn how to achieve that using the group method.
But before we start let's open the terminal and run peach bee artisan route least which as you might
remember displays the full list of older routes defined in the application.
And this is quite a long list.
So currently we'll be only working on the API routes and as you can see it's pretty hard to track them
down so you can do a quick trick if you are on the mark or Unix and Linux distribution you can just
run peach bee artisan route least and then pipe the results of this command and call grep API.
This will only find that the lines which has the word API in them.
Alternatively if you are on Windows you can use find SD R and inside the quotes you can specify API
of course.
This won't work on my machine as I am on Mac but this is the alternative to do it on Windows.
Of course it's not necessary to do that but might just help you out to see the changes we are making
visually quicker.
Okay so let's go back to the visuals to your code and define the first thing and we will do a prefix
and this is the URL prefix.
So sometimes when you have your API as their version might change because you are introducing new features
and then they are either front end still using the older version or some devices like mobile devices
that just can't updated or use the new API because they just don't know about the new API so that's
a typical thing you might do to prefix your roots with our version.
In this case we say that this is the version 1 and that we can use group the closure and inside it what
we might do is simple end point for a starter.
So this would be just our route defined inside this file and this could be a status end point.
This will just display if your API is working or not.
Now this will just simply return Jason and to return Jason.
You just called return call the response helper method and it has a method Jason which accepts somewhere
array as the data and optionally a second parameter is the status code.
So let's return that status OK.
OK.
If you have copied everything.
Now let's run our route list so you can see how prefix works.
So the first thing that we have is API.
And of course this is directly taken from the map API roots because it's calling our prefix method and
then groups all the files from the API speech.
So that's the first prefix that is being added.
So any subsequent calls to the prefix will just add this as a next parameter so you can see api v1 means
version 1 status.
Of course this end point does work.
So if you copy it and now go to postman
this would be the first and point that we have created and it of course returns.
Jason.
And you can see that we have the content type US application.
Jason by the way you might have noticed that we got some cookies back.
We have their response and well I've told you that with the API endpoints we don't have a session and
cookies.
But actually this is how postman works.
So if it got some cookies from the previous attempts to our specific domain it will save this cookies
and then we'll send them again as you can see there is this option temporary headers under this header
stop and it just tries to re send back those cookies.
So to clear that you will have to go to this cookies option and then just remove those cookies here.
So now if you will call this end point again you can see that there is no cookies return back.
And of course there are no temporary cookies in temporary headers and this is how API s work.
So no session is being started.
No cookies are stored on the server and you won't get any cookies back which means a session cookie
for example.
And we'll get of course to how to how to raise those end points later.
So now let's go back to the Visual Studio code and play around with their prefix method again.
So let's see how we can quickly are the new version of this end point as I've mentioned this might change
and well some mobile devices Martin might not pick it up so you probably want sometimes to have two
versions of the end point at the same time.
And now we have created a new end point with V2 and this might for example change the response.
So let's say that status is not OK but it's a boolean.
So it's true
and now let's call beauty artisan route least grep API and you can see that we have two status end points.
So if you will now visit this in the post man you can see that's the version one and version two is
different but the whole point of that is to demonstrate how we can use prefix to add some roots and
they all will have to be defined inside this block.
So you are adding something and then grouping those routes.
So now let's keep working with the version 1 as this was just an example of using prefix.
And if you will go back to the least you can see that there is empty think here.
So those roots have no names.
If we were called peach B aunties on the route least again the full list you can see that the normal
routes that we have created have some kind of name and now in the case of the API of course there isn't
any.
Because we haven't defined anything.
Now if I'm probably the first thing you will do with our current application is that now everything
works on traditional endpoints you just display and HDL but you might have some corresponding controllers
that do the same like display a list of comments.
But through an API so not to confuse it with that giving the same names we can use the name method and
if we'll do that if we were called name before we called group we can the prefix to the name of all
of the roots so we can do something like api v1 and adopt let's clear the screen and call it again with
this grep API.
Now you can see that this is being added as a prefix but now currently since we haven't defined a name
for this route it's just api v1 dot.
So let's fix that.
We can also do that here.
So this will be V to any other name to this route.
So name would be let's say status something simple.
And now you can see that we have api v1 status and this is our route.
Name you can use to generate you arouse inside your application.
So it's always useful to have the root names defined.
Now let's quickly take a look at the Web BHP.
So we've often used the route resource to generate a controller that has some predefined actions that
just center around a specific resource.
In this case the post comments.
So we have a list of comments we have methods for storing one.
But also when you call a route resource it is creating two additional methods one for showing the forum
to add this particular comment and then another one to show that forum for editing.
So two additional actions are being added.
So as a reminder we can check that out.
So here this is actually not defined but let's say in post controller there is an update for actually
changing the blog post but there is also a need to display a forum and this is how to generate a bi
lateral.
If you use the resource routes now there is something corresponding for API.
But this just won't have those two additional routes because you don't need them as of course in API.
You do not show any forums.
So let's see how we can generate a controller.
So you will run P2P artisan make controller as usual but this time since we will be coupling some of
the functionality of post comment controller but this time we want it separate we would use then namespace
method.
So we have to define a namespace in this command Lane command line and this would be API V1 and not
this one thing that I'm using this forward slash for their name spaces and in BHP this backslash.
So that's very important because this will just break.
If you would use the backslash you have to use forward slash when generating groups.
So what this is saying is that create that under this namespace and this namespace means that there
should be the base namespace used.
If you do not remember this is in route service provider up HDP controllers and then we would like to
create two additional folders API and V1.
It's just a good practice to organize your controllers this way.
So now the controller name this would be post command control controller.
So mind that we can use the same name as we already have because this is in a different namespace so
there is no conflict.
And remember that we have previously used this resource flag to create a resource controller and for
the API resource controllers will use a different flag.
And it is called API before you run it.
I've made a mistake.
This actually should not be a space here.
This has to be like that.
Now let's run this and now we can see that we should have a new class generated inside up contour up
HDP controllers.
Now API V1 post command controller.
So let's take a quick look at this controller so you can see that this is a resource controller.
It is being generated specially for the API.
And as I've said it only has index storage for saving show for displaying one element update for modifying
one element and destroy.
So two methods for showing the forum to add and update are missing because we don't need them so now
we can use this using route.
And this time we don't call their resource method it is actually API resource so you can specify it
as post comments let's check what we have in the web.
This is posts comments so let's be consistent.
Post comments and then controller name.
So this would be post comment controller but now we haven't added the namespace call here and.
Well let's see what happens first.
Let's open this API controller and you can see that the index method showing all elements is empty so
it shouldn't produce anything.
Now if you go to API V1 posts 1 comments you can see that we actually got some J some bug and well we
just checked seconds ago that this wasn't implemented anywhere.
So the method index is empty.
And the reason for that is we haven't specified any additional namespace for those roots specifically
for this one.
So what lateral does is it is looking for the default namespace defined in room service provider which
happens to be up HDP controllers and what happened is that we actually have a controller inside this
directory and this is this old one that we played around with in previous sections and it returns some
Jason so to tell a lot of where it should find the controllers we can use root namespace and while in
this case it actually won't make sense to wrap all of this using single namespace because it's a different
version and then well we might just create a separate controllers for this too so let's add namespace
here so namespace
and here we'll have to specify it as api v1 exactly the same as our new folder structure for those controllers.
So now if you will save the changes and visit this link again you'll get an empty page.
There is some H the amount generated by the lot of debug bar but if from here you will adjust the return
response.
J some
something like this just some adjacent to return anything and run this again you will see that we actually
have this end point
so now let's go back to the terminal and run the artisan route least grep API again and now you'll see
all of our end points and they all happen to have this prefixes that we have defined you.
This is also API.
The version that another prefix that we have added here there is Version 2 and apart from our 2 status
and points which are closures there are also the resource routes defined using API resource for the
comments.
Look how nicely they are produced with the sensible argument names and also they have the names which
want to duplicate the existing ones because we have other it also are prefixed to the name using the
name method and now they also know where to pick up the controller.
So they are using the controller from the API V1 folder.
So now you know how to actually define those API routes and we have also created the first controller
which we will proceed implementing in the next lecture and will of course reuse some of the stuff that
we have here which actually shouldn't be in this place so we can have some first function of things
in our API done for our application.